# A Really Useful Cooking Skill

The Skill provides a virtual cooking assistant for cook book publishers, using a combination of Amazon Alexa voice assistant and intelligent display, with emphasis on the personalisation of recipe content.
The App facilitates searching for recipes across a users library of Ebury Press books, by recipe name, ingredient or keyword. Ingredient quantities can be scaled on-the-fly to suit a cook’s requirement and the ingredient listing displayed in the familiar format of the respective cook book. Clear and simple cooking instructions can be recited to the cook at their prompting for the complete recipe or in the parts if the recipe has been partitioned into parts.


So why an app?

There is no doubt about the enduringly popularity of cook books, as evident in their consistently stratospheric sales. Anyone with a modicum of interest in food loves to slowly browse through a good cook book given a moment, enticed by the photography, inspired by the recipe names and transported by the passion in their hands. The satisfying experience continues as you delve into a recipe. You study the ingredients and read the prose with a growing intent.
The difficulties starts, I find, when you move from the comfort of the reading space (both metaphorical and physical) into the kitchen. In brief, cooking while mentally tracking a list of ingredients, quantities and units and constantly reviewing a recipe text for instructions, with hands covered in flour and butter, is stressful and error prone, or at least for some of us, maybe even the majority, given the mountainous volume of cook books sold and the relative paucity of self- declared competent cooks.
What we need is a better way to deliver recipe content while in the kitchen. A hands free, voice activated virtual cook assistant, delivered by Alexa through my App, represents the best way to communicate a recipe to a cook. Succinct voice commands, when properly designed and delivered, will reduce the errors, stress and preparation time to as close to zero as possible.
The result is an App design that has deconstructed a recipe into some fifty unique data points, some sourced directly from the original recipe, others inferred and a good portion that are entirely new. When fully populated a recipe may contain between 250 to 650 specific instances of data depending on its complexity. The benefit of all this data are recipe formats that can be reimagined and presented to the cook in new and exciting ways starting with today’s voice assistants through to interactive intelligent displays of the future.
 
Now, instead of dashing between mixer and book with annoying regularity, the cook can request Alexa to recite a comprehensive set of cooking instructions. Each instruction designed to do one simple task, typically with one ingredient e.g. “measure 30 grams of caster sugar into a small bowl”. The fundamental benefit of a verbal assistant, when properly implemented, increases the confidence of an unskilled or average cook to tackle any recipe, no matter how complex or unfamiliar, with vastly reduced apprehension and preparation. The App however, can do much more than just recite a series of instructions.
